Source: https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/work-permit-for-foreign-worker/sector-specific-rules/medical-insurance
Accessed: 2025-09-05
Title: Medical insurance for WP
Category: healthcare
HTTP: 200

You must buy and maintain medical insurance (MI) for each migrant worker you employ. The insurance cost cannot be passed on to your workers. You also need to submit the insurance details online before the Work Permit can be issued.
What it should cover
As an employer, you must buy and maintain MI with coverage for inpatient care and day surgery, including hospital bills for conditions that may not be work-related. The coverage for each Work Permit holder has to be at least $60,000 per year.
If the MI plan has sub-limits (e.g. inpatient care, day surgery or ‘per disability/medical condition’), each sub-limit needs to meet the minimum annual claim limit as stated above.
Enhanced MI
Since 1 July 2023, we have enhanced the minimum MI required for all new and existing Work Permit holders (including migrant domestic workers). The enhanced MI will better protect employers against large medical bills incurred by your workers, and will be implemented in two stages as shown in the table below.
Engage
insurers offering the enhanced MI early to understand the products available. We encourage you to buy an MI with all the enhanced requirements early for better peace of mind.
| To implement for MI policies, renewals or extensions with start date effective from |
Enhanced MI requirements |
| 1 July 2023 (Stage 1) |
Higher annual claim limit of at least $60,000, with a co-payment of 75% by insurers and 25% by employers for claim amounts above $15,000.
|
| 1 July 2025 (Stage 2) |
- Standardisation of allowable exclusion clauses
- Age-differentiated premiums by two age bands (50 years old and below; and above 50 years old)
- Direct payment by insurers to hospitals upon the admissibility of the claim
|
You do not need to buy MI if the Work Permit holder is also holding a Dependant’s Pass and already has an MI plan that meets the minimum coverage required for Work Permit holders. The insurance plan must cover the full period of the Work Permit validity.
You can have a co-pay arrangement with the Work Permit holder (excluding migrant domestic workers) for their medical bills, only if all of the following are met:
- The co-pay amount is reasonable and does not exceed 10% of the worker’s fixed monthly salary.
- The duration of co-payment does not exceed 6 months (for every 2 years of employment).
- The co-payment option is explicitly in the employment contract or collective agreement and has the worker’s full consent.
Submit insurance details
You need to submit MI details online before you request to issue or renew a Work Permit, and when the details change.
To update the information, log in to WP Online.
You need to keep the following information up to date:
- Name of insurer
- Insurance policy number
- Insurance policy commencement date
- Insurance policy expiry date
