Source: https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/work-permit-for-foreign-worker/sector-specific-rules/hiring-existing-worker-in-process-sector
Accessed: 2025-09-05
Title: Hire existing worker (process)
Category: sectors
HTTP: 200

If you are in the process sector, you can hire existing workers without them having to leave Singapore first. Find out the requirements and how to apply.
At a glance
| Who are eligible |
Existing process workers from Non-Traditional Sources (NTS), North Asian sources (NAS), or People’s Republic of China (PRC).
Note: You can also find out about hiring existing Malaysian workers.
|
| When you can apply |
With the existing employer’s agreement:
If the Work Permit has a validity of 14 days or more, you may proceed tosubmit a Work Permit application.
If the worker's Work Permit is expiring in less than 14 days, you first need to apply for pre-approval from MOM. You will need the existing employer to sign the consent form.
Without the current employer's agreement:
From 40-21 days before the worker's current Work Permit expires.
|
Why hire an existing worker
You may consider hiring workers who are already in Singapore to:
- Benefit from experienced workers and a faster deployment time.
- Save on the cost of bringing in new workers.
Transferring existing workers with current employer's agreement
If the current employer agrees, you can apply for existing workers while their Work Permits are valid. Their Work Permit must have a remaining validity of at least 14 days.
Apply for a transfer worker
To apply for a new Work Permit for the transfer:
- Follow the general Work Permit application process.
- If the worker is eligible for the transfer, an SMS or email will be sent to the existing employer. The existing employer need to log in to WP Online to agree or reject the transfer, within 5 working days. If consent is not given by the existing employer, the Work Permit application submitted will be automatically rejected.
- Upon approval, you can proceed to get the new Work Permit issued. The existing Work Permit will be automatically cancelled once you get the new one issued.
- If you need an earlier transfer, have a discussion with the worker and existing employer to come to an agreement.
- Once the new Work Permit is issued, you are responsible for the workers’ upkeep and maintenance. Make sure you arrange acceptable accommodation for the worker before you take over the employment.
When the workers’ Work Permits are within 40 to 21 days from expiry, you can apply for new Work Permits for them without their existing employer’s consent.
To apply for a new Work Permit for the transfer:
- Follow the general Work Permit application process.
- If the worker is eligible for the transfer, an SMS or email will be sent to the existing employer. The existing employer needs to log in to WP Online to view application status.
- Upon approval, you need to get the Work Permit issued.
You can only request for the Work Permit to be issued when the current permit has been cancelled or expires. Once the current Work Permit is no longer valid, we will SMS or email you. You will then have 14 days to get the new Work Permit issued. Otherwise, the transfer approval will be revoked, and overstaying fines may be incurred.
As an existing employer, what could I do to keep my workers
As an existing employer, you are given priority to renew your workers’ Work Permits.
If you want to keep your workers, you should renew their Work Permits early, upon receiving the renewal notice.
When your workers’ Work Permits are within 40 to 21 days from expiry, another employer can apply for new Work Permits for them without your consent.
We will SMS or email your WP Online administrator if another employer submits an application for your worker.
If the new employer’s application is approved:
- You can continue to employ the worker, as long as the existing Work Permit is valid.
- You will remain responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the workers until the new Work Permit is issued under the new employer.
- You are responsible for settling any outstanding salary while the worker was under your employment.
Roles and responsibilities
Please see the table below to find out the current and new employers’ responsibilities during the transfer of a migrant worker within their own business sector:
| Work Permit status |
Who is responsible for worker's upkeep, maintenance and repatriation |
What you need to do next |
With current employer: Live
With new employer: Approved |
Current employer
|
Current employer: Discuss and agree with new employer on the date to get the new Work Permit issued.
New employer: Get the pass issued before the IPA expires or earlier if the current employer agrees.
If you are hiring the worker without the current employer’s consent, get the new Work Permit issued within 7 days after the current one expires.
|
With current employer: Live
With new employer: IPA expired, withdrawn or cancelled |
Current employer |
Current employer: You may renew the Work Permit (if eligible), or send the worker home.
New employer: No further action needed. |
With current employer: Expired/Cancelled
With new employer: Approved |
New employer |
Current employer: No action needed.
New employer: Get the Work Permit issued now to avoid any overstaying fine. Submit a request if you need more time to get the pass issued. |
With current employer: Expired
With new employer: IPA withdrawn or cancelled before the worker’s Work Permit expires. |
Current employer |
Current employer: You may renew the Work Permit (if eligible), or send the worker home.
New employer: No action needed. |
With current employer: Expired
With new employer: IPA withdrawn or cancelled after the worker’s Work Permit expires. |
New employer |
Current employer: No action needed.
New employer: You need to arrange to send the worker home. |
