Source: https://www.judiciary.gov.sg/civil/file-employment-claim
Accessed: 2025-09-05
Title: Judiciary: file employment claim
Category: disputes
HTTP: 200

The Employment Claims Tribunals (ECT) provide employees and employers with a speedy and low-cost forum in which to resolve their salary-related claims and wrongful dismissal claims.
Mediation at the Tripartite Alliance for Dispute Management (TADM) is compulsory before claims can be filed at the ECT. You may only file a claim at the ECT if both of the following applies:
You should submit a mediation request to TADM as soon as your claim arises, as there are limits to the claim period.
You may refer to TADM's mediation guide for more information.
This is the process of filing an employment claim.
If you file a claim, you are the claimant.
The other party is the respondent. If you have a claim made against you, refer to Respond to an employment claim instead.
Understand employment claims
Find out if your employment claim can be heard at the ECT.
File and serve an employment claim
You need to file your employment claim in the Community Justice and Tribunals System (CJTS) and serve it on the respondent.
Resolve the dispute online
Parties have a chance to settle their dispute online without going to court by online negotiation (eNegotiation) or upon request, online mediation (eMediation) on CJTS.
Attend court
If the dispute is not resolved, both you and the respondent must attend a case management conference (CMC). At the CMC, the registrar will attempt to mediate the dispute between the parties.
If the matter cannot be settled at the CMC, the case will be fixed for a hearing before a tribunal magistrate.
File an application, if needed
You may file an appeal against an employment claims order in some cases, or set aside an order made in your absence if you missed a court session. If the ECT makes an order in your favour but the other party does not comply, you may apply to enforce it.
Organisation | Contact information |
|---|---|
Ministry of Manpower (MOM) | Hotline: 6438 5122 |
Tripartite Alliance for Dispute Management (TADM) | (For Singaporeans and PRs) |
Migrant Workers' Centre (MWC) | MWC Serangoon |
National Trades Union Congress (NTUC) | NTUC Centre |
Singapore National Employers Federation (SNEF) | Paya Lebar Square (Lobby 2) |
However, public servants, domestic workers and seafarers may bring certain statutory salary-related and wrongful dismissal claims to TADM and the ECT, such as claims for employment assistance payments and maternity benefits.
