Source: https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/work-permit-for-foreign-domestic-worker/employers-guide/contracts-and-safety-agreement
Accessed: 2025-09-05
Title: MDW contracts & safety agreement
Category: mdw
HTTP: 200

You are encouraged to sign an employment contract with your migrant domestic worker (MDW) and are required to sign a safety agreement with her.
MDWs are not covered by the Employment Act because it is not practical to regulate specific aspects of domestic work, such as hours of work and work on public holidays.
However, we encourage you to sign an employment contract with your MDW to avoid disputes.
You and your MDW must also sign a safety agreement before she starts working for you.
Employment contract
The terms and conditions in your employment contract must be mutually agreed between you and your MDW.
As an employer, you are encouraged to cover all of the following:
- Salary
- Placement loan
- Number of rest days per month
- Compensation in lieu of rest day
- Notice period
- Compensation in lieu of termination notice
You can get your employment agency to draft an employment contract for you and your MDW.
Terminating an employment contract
Early termination is allowed to maintain flexibility for you and your MDW, as circumstances may change.
Either you or your MDW can terminate the employment contract by giving the notice period stated in the employment contract. If the notice period cannot be given, the party terminating the employment should pay salary in lieu of notice. Notice period can be waived by mutual consent.
Safety agreement
When you hire an MDW, your employment agency must arrange for you and her to sign a safety agreement:
The agreement emphasises the conditions to be met before you can allow your MDW to clean the exterior of windows.
You must sign this safety agreement with your MDW, except if you are renewing your existing MDW's contract.
When to sign
Refer to the table for when you must sign the safety agreement:
|
If your MDW is
|
Sign the agreement
|
|
A first-time MDW
|
After the MDW has attended the Settling-in Programme and before she starts work at your home.
|
|
All other MDWs
|
Before the MDW is deployed to you.
|
What it covers
The safety agreement:
- Lists the restrictions on cleaning the exterior of windows.
- States that your requirements for cleaning windows will comply with our regulations.
- Includes the MDW's acknowledgment of your requirement on window cleaning.
To ensure that your MDW fully understands the agreement, the copy she signs will be in her native language.
The agreement will be signed by three parties: you, the employment agency and the MDW. You must each keep a copy of the agreement.
