Source: https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/employment-practices/guidelines/tripartite-guidelines-on-wrongful-dismissal.pdf
Accessed: 2025-09-05
Title: Tripartite Guidelines on Wrongful Dismissal (PDF)
Category: disputes
HTTP: 200

FRIDAY, JUL Y  26, 2024 1
First published in the Government Gazette , Electronic Edition, on 23 July 2024 at 5 pm.
No. 0000  –– EMPLOYMENT CLAIMS ACT 2016
TRIPARTITE GUIDELINES ON WRONGFUL DISMISSAL
(I) Introduction
1. A dismissal is defined as a termination of a contract of service between an 
employer and an employee at the initiative of the employer, with or without notice, 
including salary-in-lieu of notice. It also includes involuntary resignation.
2. In accordance with the Employment Act, dismissing an employee without 
just or sufficient cause is wrongful. These Tripartite Guidelines on Wrongful 
Dismissal provides illustrations to guide employers, employees, mediators, and 
adjudicators on what constitutes dismissals that are not wrongful and what 
constitutes wrongful dismissal under the Employment Act.
3. Both employee and employer have the right to contractually terminate 
their employment relationship. But cases may arise in which an employer believes 
he contractually terminated the employment relationship, but the employee believes 
that he was wrongfully dismissed. In order to reach an objective appraisal of the 
facts, and to resolve the matter, an employee can file a mediation request with the 
Tripartite Alliance for Dispute Management (TADM).
(II) Circumstances where misconduct or poor performance are cited
4. Where misconduct or poor performance is cited as the reason for the 
dismissal, the employer bears the burden of proving that ground for dismissal. 
The dismissal is considered wrongful if the employer is unable to do so.
Misconduct
5. Misconduct is the only legitimate reason for dismissal without notice. 
An employer may, after due inquiry, dismiss an employee without notice for 
misconduct. Misconduct includes but is not limited to theft, dishonest or disorderly 
conduct at work, insubordination, and bringing the organisation into disrepute.
Illustration 1
A was employed as a preschool teacher. He hit a student. An inquiry was 
done which established this fact. The employer dismissed A on the ground of 
misconduct, as hitting a student fell short of the conduct expected of a teacher 
towards his students.
This dismissal was due to misconduct, and was not wrongful as it was based on 
the following:
(a) Hitting a student fell short of the conduct expected of a teacher towards 
a child under his care and protection; and
(b) A was given a chance to be heard, but could not offer any legitimate 
explanation for falling short of the conduct expected of him.

 REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE GOVERNMENT GAZETTE 2
Poor Performance
6. In a case of poor performance, an employer cannot dismiss without 
notice. The employer would need to substantiate if poor performance is cited as 
the reason for dismissal with notice.
Illustration 2
B was employed as a warehouse assistant. She was involved in multiple 
incidents that resulted in poor quality services provided by the warehouse. Her 
supervisor documented these shortcomings in the performance reviews. Despite 
this, her performance did not improve. The employer dismissed B with notice 
and stated that this was because of B’s poor work performance.
This dismissal was not wrongful. There was documented proof of B’s poor 
performance and the employer rightly exercised his right to terminate (with 
notice) the employment.
If, on the other hand, the employer terminated the contract without notice, the 
dismissal would have been wrongful because it is not clear that B’s performance 
was so poor as to amount to misconduct. Furthermore, the employer had not 
conducted a proper inquiry and given B a chance to be heard (see Illustration 1).
(III) Circumstances where the right to contractually terminate is invoked
7. As both employee and employer have a right to contractually terminate 
employment with notice, dismissals with notice are presumed not to be wrongful.
Illustration 3
C was dismissed with notice. His employer did not give any reason for the 
dismissal. When C asked for a reason, the employer continued to not give a 
reason, and explained that it was termination in accordance with the contract. C 
is unable to point to any facts, incidents or situations which could suggest that 
the employer’s intention was anything other than termination in accordance 
with the contract.
This dismissal with notice was not wrongful.

FRIDAY, JUL Y  26, 2024 3
Redundancy
8. For avoidance of doubt, redundancy is another legitimate reason for 
dismissing an employee with notice1. Redundancy occurs when the employer has 
excess manpower, the company is undergoing restructuring, the old job no longer 
exists, or the employee’s job scope has changed.
Illustration 4
An F&B establishment underwent restructuring to focus on its food operations 
and less on its bar operations. As a result, the employer dismissed the bartender, 
D, with notice. D claimed that his dismissal was wrongful.
The dismissal was on the ground of redundancy and was not wrongful. The 
employer was indeed changing his business model and no longer needed the 
services of D.
(IV) Circumstances where dismissal with notice is wrongful
9. To succeed in claiming that a dismissal with notice is wrongful (where 
no reason is given for the dismissal), an employee must substantiate a wrongful 
reason for the dismissal. Wrongful reasons include discrimination, deprivation 
of benefit, or to punish an employee for exercising his employment right. If an 
employer gives a reason for dismissal with notice, but the reason given is proven 
to be false, the dismissal would also be wrongful.
10. Dismissing an employee because of discrimination e.g. against the 
employee’s age, race, gender, religion, marital status and family responsibilities, 
or disability is wrongful.
Illustration 5
An employer dismissed E with notice. No reason was given for the dismissal.
But E reported that the employer had made numerous discriminatory remarks 
about the employee’s race, stating that he preferred to hire someone of another 
race. This was confirmed by other employees.
Even though the employer dismissed E with notice, the employer’s conduct 
showed that he adopted a discriminatory attitude towards E. Taken together, 
the facts support the conclusion that the employer dismissed E because of 
discrimination. Hence, the dismissal was wrongful.
1 The Tripartite Advisory on Managing Excess Manpower and Responsible Retrenchment provides 
further guidance on how to retrench workers in a responsible manner.

 REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE GOVERNMENT GAZETTE 4
11. Dismissing an employee to deprive the employee of benefits/entitlements 
the employee would otherwise have earned is wrongful.
Illustration 6
F informed her employer of her pregnancy. She had worked for her employer 
for 3 years. The employer dismissed her with notice soon after, without paying 
her maternity benefits.
The facts suggest the dismissal was with a view to deprive her of her maternity 
benefits because:
(a) The employer was unable to provide a legitimate reason for the dismissal;
(b) The employee was dismissed shortly after she informed her employer of 
her pregnancy; and
(c) The employer did not pay the employee her maternity benefits.
12. Dismissing an employee to punish the employee for exercising his or 
her employment right, e.g. filing a mediation request with TADM, or declining a 
request to work overtime, is wrongful.
Illustration 7
G was a workman earning less than $4,500. He declined his employer’s request 
to work overtime as he needed to take care of his infant child. The employer 
dismissed him with notice. The employer told G that he could not afford to 
have someone who prioritised his care-giving duties over working overtime.
The dismissal was wrongful as there was substantiated evidence from G that 
the employer wanted to punish the employee for exercising his statutory right 
to decline to work overtime due to his care-giving duties.
Illustration 8
H filed a mediation request with TADM as his employer had not paid him his 
salary for 3 months. The employer dismissed him with notice after finding out 
that he had filed a request for mediation with TADM.
The dismissal was to punish H for exercising his right to file a mediation request 
with TADM, and was wrongful as the facts indicate that it was to punish H for 
seeking remedy at TADM.

FRIDAY, JUL Y  26, 2024 5
13. If an employer gives a reason for dismissal with notice, but the reason 
given is proven to be false, the dismissal would also be wrongful.
Illustration 9
J was told by his employer that his company was restructuring, and his job 
would no longer exist. He was then dismissed with notice. J later found out 
that what his employer said was not true. In fact, there remained a vacancy for 
the exact job he used to do, and his former employer had recruited someone 
else to fill his post.
On the face of it, this is a case of dismissal with notice. The employer did not 
need to provide a reason. But he provided a reason, which was shown to be 
untrue. Hence, the dismissal was wrongful.
(V) Conclusion
14. These guidelines set out what constitutes wrongful dismissal and what 
does not. With the transfer of the adjudication for wrongful dismissal to the 
Employment Claims Tribunals, these guidelines will provide a reference for 
mediators and adjudicators at the TADM and ECT respectively. They also serve 
as a reference for HR practitioners, employers and employees, to better prepare 
all parties for the change in adjudicators, and also to prevent and minimise 
disputes over dismissal matters.
